John Mertic: afternoon everyone.
Mike MacIsaac: At
John Mertic: First, when I got on. I was still on mute. And I said, Good morning everyone. And then I realized, oh geez, it's it's afternoon already. Where is the day
John Mertic: And I see Miss fatale getting in the background.
John Mertic: And I see a 614 number, which means someone down by Columbus.
16149350844: Draw
A
John Mertic: Wage
Phil Tully: Oh,
That's right.
John Mertic: Did you see I don't know if you saw your email, I, I, I made a I made you a a your own logo and crunchbase thing and all your projects.
16149350844: Yeah, I saw that email. Thank you for doing
16149350844: That, that's great.
John Mertic: No problem.
John Mertic: I picked them up. I just picked a an SVG black and white house because it like he says, I think what Spanish for house, so why not
16149350844: Exactly. Brilliant, brilliant.
Once in a while.
John Mertic: I am well. How are you doing, Mr telly.
Phil Tully: getting over a cold.
Phil Tully: Good.
John Mertic: Let's see.
Phil Tully: I see JP
John Mertic: Joining in a gap.
JP: Hello. How are you doing, I'm well.
John Mertic: How are you
JP: Feeling good, and I see Peter
John Mertic: Jumping in as well.
John Mertic: And I believe JP, I'd heard that.
John Mertic: Peter is going to be taking over.
John Mertic: The voting seat is that
pfandel: That is correct. This is Peter. That's great.
John Mertic: Okay, cool.
John Mertic: All right, we got all sorts of people popping in here.
John Mertic: I see Greg McKinnon I think on the line.
gmackinnon: Hi john
John Mertic: See
In June.
John Mertic: On the line as well.
Jinjun Xiong: I was entering yet.
Jinjun Xiong: With everyone here.
John Mertic: Thank you. Thank you. I apologize if I mispronounced your name there.
Jinjun Xiong: Nope, nope, I'm a verbal actually good once in a while.
John Mertic: We're getting a
We got
John Mertic: A lot of people popping in
John Mertic: Here so apologies, is I'm trying to
John Mertic: Make sure I get everyone
John Mertic: Here in the notes.
John Mertic: All right, so from the voting members. I know Bob sauerberg said he wasn't able to attend is Mark post on the line.
12486306135: Yes, I am. Oh, cool. Oh.
John Mertic: You're that you just slipped in your the 248 number. Okay.
12486306135: Excellent.
John Mertic: All right. And then in terms of other attendees Mc, Mc Isaac Vinnie around Rick trots JP
John Mertic: Do Devlin Sean Grady JUNE JUNE Dan horrific Joe Boston. Is there anyone I didn't call it name off for it's a voting member
John Mertic: It's not, it's a non voting member. I'm sorry.
John Mertic: I see Ingo popping in
John Mertic: If I count up my things right. I think I've got it right. All right. We've got a we have a very good group and turn out today for
John Mertic: Today's TLC call or attack call. Thank you all very much for being in attendance. I'll put the chat. I'll put the agenda in the chat. It's also up on GitHub as well. I will drop the URL in
John Mertic: Those following at home.
John Mertic: Okay, sure. Want to follow.
John Mertic: And we don't have really too much in terms of specials today. I think the biggest thing is we have a few of our projects.
John Mertic: In the incubation stage.
John Mertic: That we want to discuss around the renewal. The incubation status.
Vincent Terrone: And just sort of
John Mertic: And so I think those are sort of the big things. I think there
John Mertic: Was also an option there and discussing sort of the project activity and
John Mertic: Ed, but that's really I think those are all the things agenda wise. Anything else anyone would like to add to the agenda today.
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: Oh, sorry.
16149350844: I got a life. Yeah, I got a licensing question.
16149350844: Maybe put it at the end of we have time for.
16149350844: Sure, I'm happy to
Enyu Wang: Hey john it's a new year. Happy New Year.
John Mertic: Happy New Year to year two.
Yeah.
Enyu Wang: I missed a couple of previous meetings. I'm not sure if we discussed the status on on you know getting Travis CI to support z.
John Mertic: I
Enyu Wang: Am status to share
John Mertic: Okay, I will. I'll put that on the agenda here as well.
John Mertic: Okay, okay.
John Mertic: Alright, well, we'll go through the project updates and there's a few of them here. We want to discuss renewing the incubation status and I guess just to give everyone sort of context before we we kind of
John Mertic: Dig into that.
John Mertic: I'm one of the one of sort of the pieces of the life cycle and I'll put the put the link to the life cycle in the in the chat here for everyone to look at is that for projects that are at the incubation stage.
John Mertic: Every 12 months the tack will vote to basically continue to renew it at that stage.
John Mertic: For another 12 months.
John Mertic: And really it's it's not meant to be a this is a good project. This is a bad project. It's more of just to kind of gauge on at least what we see how a lot of other tasks that have similar processes. Look at it, it's more of a gauge of process and
John Mertic: You know whether whether whether the, the group, you know, based upon why the project was accepted initially is there been traction. Is there, is there a promise is there may be opportunities to help get it back going if it's slow down is the right level of traction continued
John Mertic: You know, kind of, so on so forth there. So, you know, certainly with some of these. I think they're we've, we've got a few questions over the email list.
John Mertic: Of, you know, hey, is this really feeling like an active project. Is this something we need to discuss
John Mertic: We certainly don't want to make it of is, you know, if you're not perfect right now you're getting voted off the island. It's more of, is this an area where the tack should help get involved, maybe invest some time.
John Mertic: And see if there's maybe an opportunity to to help move this project along into the active stage.
John Mertic: Does that help, I just want to start by adding that context is that, does that help everyone is we're starting to think about this.
Yeah.
pfandel: Cool and
John Mertic: I will say there is no right and wrong answers to renewing and
John Mertic: This is probably also an area where I think the tack could develop a little bit of case law of how they sort of look at these scenarios. So
John Mertic: You know, for example, they might, you know, you could help set sort of the criteria here of what you know looks like is going to be viability and then use that is a judgment for for future projects as well so
John Mertic: It. We try not to legislate things too much and the get go. We'd like to really like the tax sort of own this process.
pfandel: It might be helpful when you when you list the projects here to put in parentheses, the months of renewal, so we know when that's coming up for each one of these
John Mertic: That is a great idea. I will definitely do that going forward.
John Mertic: Thank you. Thank you for that.
John Mertic: I did for. There's three of them that are up for renewal, but we're gonna just do everything alphabetically. And then we'll talk about the renewal status and we get in there. Um, let's start with the incubating with Amadeus any updates. I think Joe Boston and
John Mertic: Peter on the line there. And I think Joe Devlin, as well as your devil in Boston to the project chairs.
pfandel: So we did have a demo earlier this week from anaconda.org
pfandel: Of their this new Anaconda server offering that they have which will be part of our
pfandel: Strategy.
pfandel: For delivering into blowing
pfandel: The fruits of impetus to our paying customers is sort of part of our
pfandel: Part of our plan to make it a viable business. So that's an important step forward, it will be evaluating that code that that server technology server product.
pfandel: Rocket
pfandel: Network in the coming weeks.
Joe Bostian: Yeah, and in from sort of the example and how to part of, you know, our attitudes outreach. We're continuing to put some content in there. I'm just, just to show how
Joe Bostian: You know, open source project a, you know, can easily operate in the zoo is environment as well so
Joe Bostian: We're continuing to enhance the content that we make available there and use it as a reference to to point people at and say, here's a, you know, when we talked to them. We have a place. Now we can point people to and say, Go look over here for more information.
And that's very helpful.
pfandel: And one a third update is that john Carlo Frick's like the guy who has been doing the GCC port was taken off the project for three months in the fourth quarter, but he is back on full time as of last week and will continue to be on full time.
pfandel: Until the end of August 20 goes back to school and we have a we've already hired a replacement for john Carlos, it will be a long period of overlap between the two of them.
Joe Devlin: Peter. When did you say he would be with rocket until when
pfandel: Until the end of August.
Joe Devlin: Okay, good. So yeah, so I think we'll be done with the debugger projects by then, hopefully, some other things. All right.
John Mertic: Great. And I think another thing that project is really working on is, you know, just kind of helping sort of established where
John Mertic: The ports are in the life cycle.
John Mertic: And, you know, really, you know, helping identify potentially new
pfandel: Things as well. There's been a lot of kind of governance.
John Mertic: Lead related work that's been going on there, since it's a little bit of
A unique project.
John Mertic: But I think
John Mertic: That's starting to come together.
John Mertic: Slowly but surely
John Mertic: So that's a really positive sign
John Mertic: All right. Anybody else, any other questions on on that.
John Mertic: Okay, next up on was it somebody else join in the background there. I see. I think an extra 804 number
John Mertic: Or is that somebody may be just dialing in
pfandel: Okay, who is area code 804
John Mertic: Yeah. Is there an area code 804 person dialed in.
18049181726: Land settled. Ah.
John Mertic: I should recognize that number by now. My bad, sorry about that.
No worries.
18049181726: Okay, our
John Mertic: next panelist is the atoms plugins jar, which is not hasn't joined the call. This is a project that is up for renewal I'm I can bring up a little bit of the on the shared screen here, maybe a little bit of where the dev analytics is his sat around
John Mertic: This project.
Joe Devlin: What name that you said it was associated with that.
John Mertic: John R1.
Joe Devlin: Or away from my DVR way.
John Mertic: Yep, from IBM. Yep. Okay.
John Mertic: So bring up sort of the dev analytics of where this project has sad.
John Mertic: So really, a lot of this was maintaining a bunch of language syntax highlighting
John Mertic: For for the atom plug for the atom editor for Mary see VM tools. I think there was like Rex.
John Mertic: And a few other back ends there as well.
John Mertic: As you can see, there's a lot of activity. I think early on, and there was a little bit of a pickup at the beginning of the year, but I think there was more of just kind of cleaning up some of the repositories, but otherwise it's been pretty quiet.
John Mertic: And really not a ton of commits here. Now, you could also probably make the argument that like how much active development. Do you have a language syntax highlighting. Um, but I guess it just sort of curious, have you know from this group like what
John Mertic: Does it, does it make sense to push room for renewing this, does it make sense to maybe look at push an active status. Does it make sense to see if maybe helping build some of the scope to get a little bit more attention to it or what are your thoughts.
John Mertic: I'll put in the chat. If you want to look at some of the dev analytics on this as well.
John Mertic: Your own machine.
Ingo Adlung: So I must admit Pegasus and go, so I must admit that that that that somehow it is past my attention so
Ingo Adlung: So, so my apologies for that. But other than that, I think, probably we should talk to john and and and get his perspective. So I don't know whether whether silence translates to, there's no there's no usage or whether it means that
Ingo Adlung: It's a, it's a completed work.
Yeah.
Ingo Adlung: I would assume that that that that CPM adding adding new capabilities. Every once in a while, by SBS it would naturally suggest for for for some additional
Ingo Adlung: Additions but I may be wrong. Perhaps this is just about the language syntax and and not that much about any specific CDN commands or so.
Yeah.
Phil Tully: Good you both think though didn't go with this. So I think that's the kind of that that discussion is the exact discussion. I think we have to have for any of these
Phil Tully: Projects, we, I think we need to reach out to the project's themselves and say, you know, are you doing anything. Are you not from again from the, from the THC point of view.
Phil Tully: Let's, let's, reach out to them and say, Look, you're. What are you doing with your project is it is done is it's not dog is it
Phil Tully: Let's, let's, I think.
Phil Tully: We have a PhD. I don't think we should just say, oh, let's go put it into the status for that status without reaching out to now they don't respond, that's a separate issue so
Phil Tully: But I think, yeah, right. You're right. Maybe this is is completed, it's going to be. And it's just being used and that's that's a good project until something else needs to be done to it so
John Mertic: Yeah. And some of those, like, I mean, if you look at the life cycle. I mean, this is a little bit of what the marital status is sort of for me. It's not that we we wipe the earth of it, it's just
John Mertic: It's no longer be active element if there's a security or whatever. Anything that pops up. Yeah, we look and merge it in, but it's not it's not considered an active work.
Phil Tully: You don't want to throw it away, you just you.
Phil Tully: Exactly where it needs to be exactly
Ingo Adlung: So john I can take to do TALKING TO JOHN. JOHN RV and
John Mertic: Or
Ingo Adlung: And depending on his input, I might suggest it's fun for him to come here to the to the TC and discuss with us or or perhaps it's it's
It's, it's
Ingo Adlung: Very clear and and we can then just act on it.
John Mertic: Perfect. Now, I was going to ask you to do that. So thank you for volunteering.
John Mertic: Alright, next project update is fail on and it's also up for renewal status.
John Mertic: But I think this is one here that is actually we're actually seeing a ton of activity on. Is there anybody from that group that's on the call, or else I can maybe share an update.
John Mertic: Alright, I guess I'll, I'll share the update. Um so Mike freeze and agar, and James Vincent from velocity software have been leading this project.
John Mertic: The biggest thing they've been focused really on
John Mertic: Two big things one is on infrastructure and getting a kind of before this project had the CIC D environment that was really kind of behind the IBM firewall and how do we get this out to be a community CI CD infrastructure.
John Mertic: So we've had a couple of conversations, it looks like we're we're leaning towards and we're, we need to kind of circle the wagons, a little bit with a few of the folks in the Zoe side is kind of transitioning the built Zoe infrastructure into a common open mainframe project infrastructure.
John Mertic: With the only slight exception of that is
John Mertic: The Zoe has
John Mertic: Builders that are on Jenkins.
John Mertic: That are builder, you know, builders that are on Maris boxes.
John Mertic: Those would be sort of maintained a little bit independently and so it'd be up to each project to find out you know what Z builders, they would need to use
John Mertic: But we would have a common Jim Jenkins infrastructure that would be kind of the center point is that, and I think, in principle, most people on the same page, there's a couple little wrinkles
John Mertic: That we need to work out but
12486306135: I think that's it.
John Mertic: Looks like a little bit of the plan moving
John Mertic: Forward here. And I think this can be a positive thing for the project in general just because as new projects come online any a CI CD structure.
John Mertic: We don't just spin up one from scratch, we can you know just give them access to what we have already which has Jenkins and artifacts. And so in our cloud and all of those bits in there ready to roll.
John Mertic: For the Z infrastructure piece until the VC infrastructure is up and going, I believe they're looking to use some resources for Viacom infinity.
John Mertic: To get going with. And so we're having, there's a few conversations on the links to make there. So I think that's one
John Mertic: Two is there's a conversation of just getting a sandbox environment for development that was kicked off today. And I think that's moving. I think that's going to be kind of hand in hand a little bit with the build targets.
12486306135: And then three is
John Mertic: That project is working on
John Mertic: The CI badge, which is one of the big requirements for graduation to the active stage, um,
John Mertic: So that's that anybody else that
John Mertic: Have anything to add to that, or things that I invited Mr got wrong.
18049181726: I think you captured it all from our morning call Jen very well. Okay.
John Mertic: Cool, cool. Thank you.
John Mertic: Um,
John Mertic: So I guess the big question on this one here is, is it cool to renew this this is up and it's 12 months already does Phil, do you think this is one we could take to a vote of the tech here really quick to renew
Phil Tully: Yeah, I don't think there's a problem is they have active, active they have activity going on constantly so
Phil Tully: Okay, we should be able to vote on this one.
Phil Tully: Cool.
John Mertic: So we actually have a quorum of people here.
12486306135: So we can do a vote.
John Mertic: Um. Do I hear a motion to renew feel on for another 12 months in incubation.
So,
Phil Tully: Do I hear a
Second,
John Mertic: All in fate. Well, actually.
John Mertic: I would probably would want Peter van del to be making that second
pfandel: Y'all I'll suck at it. Okay.
John Mertic: So going to make sure we get that right there.
John Mertic: For the voting members. All in favor eyes.
pfandel: I
John Mertic: Was
Enyu Wang: Just joking there button for I
John Mertic: Raise
pfandel: Raise hand I raised my hand for is
That
pfandel: They can be counted in the chat.
Enyu Wang: In the
pfandel: Participants window. I like that.
John Mertic: Oh man, I learned something new about zoom every day. Excellent. Um,
John Mertic: Is there also a thumbs down. For now, or is it just a
Race and
John Mertic: Is there any lower your hand when you're done.
Phil Tully: Okay, gotcha. Any a poser.
Abstain.
John Mertic: Alright, Fei long you got
John Mertic: You got
John Mertic: You got another lease on life, but I think they're probably
John Mertic: Within the next probably six months, they probably are.
pfandel: Gonna
John Mertic: Graduate anyways that's
Good.
John Mertic: All right, thank you all for that. That was an easy one. Next is Polly's separately, and I know I'm Gerry couldn't make the call today.
John Mertic: They kicked back off their TLC calls this week.
John Mertic: I think they're working a little bit. Also on the infrastructure buggers qualities also working on some license.
John Mertic: Pieces as well. So there's some license code licenses that need to get cleaned up.
John Mertic: Before you can start moving over. So I think that's where their main focus
John Mertic: Is on but there was a handful of people on the TLC call. So I think that project is starting to get a little bit of life underneath it, which is good. They meet every other Monday at
John Mertic: Least 2PM Eastern
John Mertic: So if you're interested in that project. The next meeting.
John Mertic: Of that project is the 20th
John Mertic: At 2PM Eastern and it's on the open mainframe project calendar which, I hope, if you all are subscribed to. I'll drop the
John Mertic: List. Here you can
John Mertic: If you go to this URL that I have up on the screen here. I'll put it in the chat.
John Mertic: You can get a calendar view of every
John Mertic: event going on with own P subject to the list that you're subscribed to. And then you can subscribe to your calendar, you can add it to your calendar is an eye Cal thing so you can be alerted and keep up to date with that.
John Mertic: And fail on by the way they're 8:30am on Thursdays every other Thursday their next one is the 23rd.
John Mertic: Anything I missed for people from the Polish definitely call it earlier this week, or any questions there.
Phil Tully: I think just like the last one. This is actively
Phil Tully: Communicating project.
Phil Tully: So I think we should be able to vote on this one as well.
Phil Tully: Well, they
John Mertic: They still have a few months to till they come up for a vote.
Phil Tully: I thought they were a double now.
John Mertic: The next one terse decompresses is the next one there.
John Mertic: Um, and so, I'll bring their dev analytics up here by the way if you all, if you want to follow at home with this.
John Mertic: You can go, I put a link in there as well. Um, so you can check that out. So terse decompress came out at the end of 2018 there is some commits early on, of just getting the code in there. And then it's just kind of sat dormant.
John Mertic: I've tried to reach out to clause, a little bit to to see if he could join the calls and he's been pretty non
Communicative
John Mertic: I don't know.
John Mertic: Ingo. Do you have any more context on on this one here.
Ingo Adlung: Which one, which one I said sorry i was i checked just fooling
John Mertic: No worries. No worries. A terse decompress
Ingo Adlung: No. No, I did not. Okay.
Phil Tully: Um, yeah.
John Mertic: Was has been kind of a kind of a little Mia on me here, as we've been trying to see what we do with this or what I remember when this came in there was sort of this context of
John Mertic: You know, do we use this as sort of a way to assemble to gather all sorts of sort of similar tools together.
Or in a project.
John Mertic: I don't know if you're mad if anybody else remembers that conversation.
Ingo Adlung: Yeah, yeah, I remember that we have been talking about whether
Ingo Adlung: Or not.
Ingo Adlung: Well, I think, to recall
Ingo Adlung: That we that we had a brief discussion whether whether we should have something like, like, like we formally had was the end tools or so. And that just being the first of a kind, and
12486306135: Which actually
12486306135: Which actually would be
Ingo Adlung: Would be fine if it would be, it would be assuming that certain things are just done. So we don't we don't need to formally emulate them.
Ingo Adlung: But they would be typically part of that tool. Second, but it certainly requires or certainly, certainly also require some some owner or maintainer of that tools crew.
John Mertic: Yeah.
pfandel: It's like a useful a useful tool to have
pfandel: But if it has no owner. We need to find one.
John Mertic: Very good point, yeah.
John Mertic: Yeah.
Ingo Adlung: Klaus Klaus
John Mertic: Klaus Elgar
Ingo Adlung: Oh, close the regular okay I can take that too.
John Mertic: Okay.
John Mertic: All right, thank you and go,
John Mertic: Yeah. And if there's if there's interest in kind of like maybe yet just getting this project into that form. I think it sounds like
John Mertic: There could be some good value and you're right i mean
John Mertic: It would be good to just to have these sort of independent and maintain it. It doesn't mean there needs to be commits coming in every day or
John Mertic: Every week, or whatever, but
John Mertic: You know, just to know that these are kind of all overseen by somebody, there's some sort of a semblance of somebody paying attention to them. I think that's
John Mertic: I think that's probably and I guess I don't want to take the word to the tack. But I think that the from the tax perspective is that mostly what you're looking at here.
John Mertic: I'm assuming silence means yes
Yes.
John Mertic: Yeah.
pfandel: Okay means yes
John Mertic: Silence means yes I can take that. Cool. Alright.
John Mertic: Well, thank you so much for that. Let's move ahead.
John Mertic: To Zorro. Do we haven't. I don't think we have anybody from the zero project on
John Mertic: The call do we
John Mertic: Know, um, I don't think I have too many updates bizarre. They've been a little bit
John Mertic: Quiet lately. As we've seen,
John Mertic: From the commits here. I think they're looking to get their TLC meetings back up and going here over the next couple of weeks so
John Mertic: I think their next one is scheduled the 30th.
John Mertic: Yeah, the 30th.
John Mertic: At 2PM Eastern
John Mertic: Any questions on the project.
12486306135: Okay, okay.
John Mertic: Um, let's go to active stage at and we have I think we have James caffery on the line today.
JamesCaffrey: You do. Um, again, we are we are getting, you know, regular on regular usage in terms of clones, not what I'd like. But, you know, continuing usage at
JamesCaffrey: At a fairly standard record standard usage probably eight to 10 a month, which is what we've seen since its existence and people coming to see it at about 100 to 200 people a month.
JamesCaffrey: And the next thing I wanted to kind of share with people is we've gotten an intern to come help
JamesCaffrey: Work on this and I'm one of the things that I would like him to do is is to work on on
JamesCaffrey: Extending the anomaly detection from just the Linux.
JamesCaffrey: Sis logs to something a little higher up in the stack and I'm going to talk to them about things like Hadoop or Spark or or any of the law, any of the other pieces of open source software that generate, you know, massive amounts of
JamesCaffrey: Huge blogs that are that are very difficult to go through
JamesCaffrey: So,
Ingo Adlung: This, this is this a single I'm wondering about your perspective, whether whether we're that when if we could apply some interim sign it. But if this would be something that that that could also be valuable in a in a cloud context where which is automated where
Ingo Adlung: Were some anomaly detection in such an automated cloud context cookie evaluable so not just a little access the operating system, but the infrastructure itself and whatever. It consists of at least hypervisor but possibly in the switch storage controller weather.
JamesCaffrey: Yeah, all of those are all those are absolutely correct.
JamesCaffrey: I want to start with something that I can point in in turn to work on.
JamesCaffrey: You know, something that they can get enough data to work on and I may come back to the to the attack and ask for ask for help on that and
JamesCaffrey: If my intern is unable to do that. And just to demonstrate that we can to get together started with a baby step of doing one and then if there are others that people think are of interest.
JamesCaffrey: To extend the extend the anomaly detection, where we have analytics or we have sufficient data to do the analytics on it to move those out from from, you know, to move to to add add additional partners and hopefully you know tested analytics against it.
JamesCaffrey: The I completely agree with you and go,
JamesCaffrey: So hopefully we'll see some on
JamesCaffrey: Will see some hopefully he'll be interested in doing that and hopefully we'll be able to make some progress.
John Mertic: Excellent, excellent. And I think he reached out to me for some logs and I think we're going to try to hook them up with some engine X logs.
JamesCaffrey: And engine X logs are are wonderful.
John Mertic: Yes.
John Mertic: They're not beautiful ones. They're mostly our it's actually from our internal DevOps or internal release engineering team. There's, like, well, it's it's logs that are mostly automated clients is that ok and I'm like, well,
John Mertic: That's easy way to yeah that's actually really good one.
JamesCaffrey: That's that's the preferred one so
JamesCaffrey: We're going to look at extending we're going to step, we're going to look at to extending the
JamesCaffrey: To whatever whatever we can find logs for and people that are willing to help us work on the logs will start this you know
JamesCaffrey: This summer with with with with an intern working on that. And then we'll move on to, if this works out. We'll move it on to other as we get more we this will go as a model that we can we can deploy insurance on going forward.
John Mertic: That's fantastic. That's fantastic. Let me know if you
John Mertic: If you would be wanting to be a position to sort of communicate that more broadly, like we could do a blog post or something about, you know, the state of AD and kind of the drive towards supporting more back ends and seeing if maybe we can claim reps and community support that way.
JamesCaffrey: Oh yeah, if, if he's able to, if, if I think he's able to do it and and i think he's he's willing to do it. Yeah, I will absolutely reach out to you john
John Mertic: Perfect, perfect. Great, great, great, great.
JamesCaffrey: I, I don't want to commit him to doing something that is going to get him in over his head. That's all I'll say
John Mertic: Now that's that's a very fair way to look at it.
John Mertic: Excellent. And I guess in terms, I think we've discussed that with a little bit of the project activity. Were there any questions, sort of, from the tack on to this project came up from an activity standpoint. But is that
John Mertic: Is this been helpful for the tack to sort of understand where this is add and the comfortability with it.
Yeah.
pfandel: Excellent.
John Mertic: Alright.
John Mertic: Well, moving right along here. Next up is the mentorship program Bob couldn't join the call today.
John Mertic: But kind of where things so stat. We did announce the call for mentees right before the holidays.
John Mertic: We've had a lot of I think a lot of you who signed up TV mentors have probably got a lot of chatter from students over the last couple weeks. I know.
John Mertic: I've got some which is
John Mertic: Potentially a good sign.
John Mertic: I was going to take a look here in the background to see how many submissions. We've got in. I didn't. I hadn't looked as of yet.
John Mertic: Now, as you recall, this year, it's a little bit different. Yes, we've had. We've already had one submission already come in for 2020 for the for this year's program. So that's a positive sign we tend to get a lot, towards the end. So I don't really worry about anything very
John Mertic: Early on,
John Mertic: I know, like I said, Bob's two big focuses which are different than this year one.
John Mertic: Is that we are being more strict on defining the projects. So we actually have a drop down and pick one of these projects. We can still add more to it. So if any of you have a project idea that you'd want to mentor student on
John Mertic: By all means, submit it and we can get it added to that drop down very quickly.
John Mertic: And then second is, we're not on a hard schedule this year we're actually having a little bit more of a
John Mertic: flexible schedule.
John Mertic: We kind of bring up
John Mertic: Up here to see you all in concert
John Mertic: To see what I mean.
John Mertic: So as you remember in years past, we had a
John Mertic: Us schedule.
John Mertic: And then a you schedule and with the challenger running into students were having trouble picking between both of especially as we started getting a very big influx of Southeast Asian
John Mertic: students participating. So this year. What we ended up changing it to be here.
pfandel: Is that mentor ships can
John Mertic: Begin anytime after May 1 they have to be started by July 1
John Mertic: And they all have to be completed.
John Mertic: With final evaluation forms in by September 31 so within their. However, it makes sense for scheduling and things like that for students to do it. It all that they can they can do that.
John Mertic: You know, they could schedule. Their eight weeks within their and the stipends will still work exactly the same, you know, $500 at the start, when the project plan is submitted 2500 on the completed midterm and 3000 when they're done, and have a successful final evaluation.
John Mertic: So hopefully this adds a little bit more flexibility because I think that was a big challenge we're running to as students last year. Um, but yeah, we're kicked off, we're promoting and so definitely within your channel share and if you
John Mertic: Have other ideas for projects that we have still students looking at them. So feel free to submit
JP: John. This is JP, I'm Sean and I have been with so many projects and we've been paying directly by candidate. What is the proper thing to tell you, where do we write redirect them to
John Mertic: I guess in Zen contacting you, what is what tends to be the question that they were asking you.
JP: What they say they're interested they want to learn more about the project and I want to make sure they apply. I want to make sure they go from a process and don't you know kind of miss a deadline.
John Mertic: Yeah. So what I would do.
John Mertic: I mean, I'm, what I'm, what I'm presenting probably is, is they're looking at
John Mertic: One of the
John Mertic: Projects here.
Sean Grady: Yeah, I mean what they've
Sean Grady: What I've seen is that they will find the page and GitHub and then find a mentor and contact them directly. So I want to make sure that they are you know registering properly so you can keep track of them.
John Mertic: Yes, yes, because if they don't apply. Then it's a problem. Um, so what
John Mertic: What they can do here.
John Mertic: So basically I would work with them just to make sure that they're comfortable with the
John Mertic: Process and all that.
John Mertic: And then when they're ready.
To fix that link here.
John Mertic: They can we have a forum on the mentorship program page here.
John Mertic: Where you can apply, they have to do the application.
John Mertic: By February 29
John Mertic: And then they fill out the form here, and I'll send a link if it looks like the link is broken, so I have to fix it real quick.
John Mertic: This quick link here for the mentorship program seems to be working. The other one seems to be broken.
John Mertic: So yes, I would encourage all of your students to follow up and post in there.
John Mertic: If you
John Mertic: Kind of, I guess, JP get later the program and I think probably we can probably give
John Mertic: All of the mentors access
pfandel: To the list of people who
John Mertic: Are applying so that way you can
John Mertic: See who's, who's applied.
John Mertic: And then if you see your student hadn't applied yet you can maybe kind of touch up with them and say, hey, I talked to you about this.
John Mertic: You know, we're able to apply or not or things like that does that.
John Mertic: Does that help answer your question, JP
Phil Tully: Yes, he does. I was perfect. Thank you.
JP: Could you give us more details about the selection process. Are we supposed to be involved in that.
John Mertic: Yes, so the mentees are actually lead the selection process or the mentors lead the selection process.
pfandel: What we've done in years.
John Mertic: Past, which is worked out good is, you know, Bob kind of does a password list and sort of divvy up the names by projects applied for and then sort of flips them.
John Mertic: To the various meant
John Mertic: The mentors to go through. Look at the resumes and kind of help rank the candidates.
pfandel: And from a one to 10 you know thing, you know, just kind of
John Mertic: stack rank them.
John Mertic: And then from there, with the group as a whole, comes back together. We try to make sure that we can get in
John Mertic: At least one
John Mertic: mentee for each of the projects as much as possible. But then we also recognize some projects get a ton of applications. Some last and so we
pfandel: Try to balance that as best we could. So, but
John Mertic: I guess, to answer your question.
John Mertic: The mentors really drive at least the rankings of it. And then, as a group, we come together and just figure
John Mertic: Out. Okay.
pfandel: Which ones to be able to find which ones.
pfandel: That okay
JP: Yes, sir.
Cool.
John Mertic: It's questions. Any other questions at the mentorship program.
John Mertic: Alright, and next on the list is only quick update
John Mertic: From anybody on and we have a couple of zillions here, so maybe they can provide insight.
pfandel: Well Amazonian
John Mertic: Well is the newsletter. Right.
pfandel: Rocket has delivered all of the one.at work. And so we're waiting for IBM and the installers to put that release out and we're hard at work on our Q1 projects. So in JSON Web Tokens out of band MFA node 12 support and a few others.
Sean Grady: And
Sean Grady: I don't know if other groups have other feedback, but I know that in the onboarding squad, they are taking a look at
Sean Grady: Making revisions to the conformance program now that we enter 2020, you know, what have we learned from last year that we would want to put into a new one.
Sean Grady: And we are continuing to make progress as Peter said the the items on all of the groups and Zoe shortlist is to get ourselves in shape for a long term support release.
Sean Grady: And I think we're on track with with our previous statements in that regard. And that we want to do something in the first quarter and continue to make the mission throughout the year.
pfandel: And it as a product manager, because that's, that's my role within rocket is product manager for Zoe an open source at rocket my primary goal with respect to Zoe is to drive adoption and so having the LTS are having a support offering commercial support offering
pfandel: And tuning the roadmap will all be towards the name of
pfandel: greatly increasing adoption.
John Mertic: Rates. Great. Any other questions and his team.
John Mertic: All right, thank you all for that. So let's go to the last two items on the agenda licensing. This was brought up by Rick Ross Rick, do you want to be that
John Mertic: Rick, you're on mute. If you're around
16149350844: Yeah, it was actually. So I'd rather project.
16149350844: On a year ago and we wrapped it up the VM link project.
16149350844: And I remember Mark post was asking about getting a place in standard GPS, because I don't think that
16149350844: Rochelle or either one worried about that.
16149350844: So,
16149350844: Any thoughts on licensing. What, what are people looking for and what about going back and revisiting a project and just changing the license.
16149350844: I have some ideas. But I was curious if anybody else had suggestions.
John Mertic: So just, just to clarify, is there already a license for VM link or not.
16149350844: I don't think we put a license on that. But at all for some of my projects. My personal Roger step handwritten license, which may itself needs attention, but that's a different question. The question here was,
16149350844: VM links kind of a handy tool. I think the distributors out of habit. But Mark said that Souza could not pick it up, unless they had GPS or something compatible.
16149350844: So I'd like to fix that.
Phil Tully: Okay, um,
16149350844: I know my perception.
John Mertic: Yeah, I mean, you could if you want to. I mean, just to do it. I mean, since if
John Mertic: You would want to do it, sort of, in accordance with
John Mertic: You know, whoever whoever else has contributed and just say, hey, we want to set the license to this.
12486306135: Right. I've already talked to rush all about it.
16149350844: Okay, yeah. So as long as you do that, you
John Mertic: Can put whatever you want on it.
16149350844: Any reason why third party couldn't do a pull request.
John Mertic: There should
Be
Phil Tully: Somebody. Go ahead.
16149350844: So those marks.
12486306135: I don't understand the question.
16149350844: Well, in this particular case you could I get you to do a pull request and make it look the way you want. Maybe just dropping in JPL into the
Phil Tully: Into the thing. Would that be enough.
16149350844: Well,
12486306135: I can understand why you want it to be a third party just you.
12486306135: Well, Rochelle.
16149350844: Rochelle has gone on to do other things. And as far as me. I'm not sure how it should look. Should we just dropped epl in there.
John Mertic: Are you just not sure, just like is JPL. The right license or something else compatible with. Is that also a question.
16149350844: Well, I think, in this particular case the GPO would be sufficient for for the distributors to use it. That was the whole purpose was I wanted to see that they could just ship it you know it's anonymous back
12486306135: I will say, since there is currently no license at all.
12486306135: Simply adding a license file.
12486306135: And then the commit message that you met you write when you put that in there. Just saying.
12486306135: The project has decided that we're going to create a license filed so that other people can use this and here it is.
12486306135: It does not have to be GPA, all of that.
12486306135: From a distributor perspective be preferable, but any OSI compliant license should be fine, but
12486306135: I really wanted to leave it up to you, since you're the author. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
16149350844: About some sort of a sacrifice and license. Yeah.
12486306135: We cannot distributed because at this point. That's it would be considered a proprietary
12486306135: Copy.
12486306135: Write a
12486306135: piece of software that we can't copy. Yeah.
John Mertic: Yeah, I think that 70
16149350844: Preference. Yeah, I think that's probably suffering for one. Oh, go ahead.
John Mertic: I'm sorry, keep talking over you. Go ahead.
16149350844: What does de Souza, have any preference for one, two or three
16149350844: Mark
16149350844: This is to have a presence for GPs to or GPS one or GPS three
16149350844: Working on a muted.
John Mertic: I put up on the screen just if you're looking at just, you know, possible ways just to help kind of get some of the licensing and contribution guidelines here. This is what we sort of recommend for all of our hosted projects.
John Mertic: Me if this might be helpful for you, just in terms of
12486306135: Compliance, you know,
12486306135: I wasn't here again you know any oversight compliant license will do. I don't think we can say there's any preference within Souza, for which one says GPO of whatever the easiest products.
12486306135: But, you know, we really definitely want to leave that up to the authors.
What they think is best
16149350844: Yeah, it was such an easy project that we just didn't get into it. Okay, thanks a lot. That helps me appreciate it. Thanks for the time. Okay.
John Mertic: Cool. Um,
John Mertic: And the last item, the agenda was sort of a thing. An update and you, you had around the Travis CI.
John Mertic: Support for z.
Enyu Wang: Yes, I just posted the link
Enyu Wang: Around the TRAvels, TRAvels CI announcement for supporting lead
Phil Tully: So in case you don't know
Enyu Wang: You haven't heard about Travis CI, it's a popular build service, especially among open source developers on for doing open source projects on GitHub, because it provides free open free build service for open source projects and has tight integration with GitHub.
Enyu Wang: So, and I think around mid November Travis, the company.
Enyu Wang: Behind Travis CI made an announcement that GitHub universe that now they support the Z architecture along others architectures, for example, Intel in the arm and power.
Phil Tully: For any open source projects, who are interested in testing their code on the Z architecture and built binary sounds the architecture.
Enyu Wang: Because now they can just use the build service without paying a fee.
Enyu Wang: And they don't have to get access to actual the hallway.
Enyu Wang: So I think right now. I think so. Last November, it's an alpha stage it's it's soon going to GA and
Enyu Wang: Travis also has planned to to GA. They're on prem build tool on the sometime this year.
Enyu Wang: So I will come anybody who's interested to give it a try if
Joe Devlin: I missed it detail. They're saying that, where will the code actually get compiled, or is this only
Joe Devlin: Are their cross compilers running on other platforms to do that compiles what what's
Enyu Wang: Yeah, the code after that gets compiled on
Enyu Wang: On the Z or Z architect is not a cross compile so Travis CI is that is a build service running on public clouds IBM provided
Enyu Wang: The architecture in the form of a cloud like community cloud for them to build
Enyu Wang: Actual code for the Z Z architecture. So it's not across compounds as an app component on the actual
Joe Devlin: By a deal between IBM and GitHub. How did this get. I mean, or maybe I'm the the slow kid. I didn't know that such a thing had been done. It's very useful. Of course, when did. Was there an announcement about IBM
Joe Devlin: During the service.
Enyu Wang: The services part of the travesty is underneath the travel CI build infrastructure. So it's not explicitly announced it's through this travesty I announcement.
Joe Devlin: Oh okay though. That's it. Okay, so that, thank you. That helps give me some legal to get online. Thank you.
John Mertic: And then you is this specific to Linux on S3 90 x
Enyu Wang: Yes, it's, it's for Linux.
John Mertic: Okay.
Joe Devlin: Oh, this is not for zero is this is only for Linux.
Yes.
Joe Devlin: Okay.
Phil Tully: Thank you.
John Mertic: This is definitely good news, um, especially for open source projects that are kind of in already using Travis. I don't, I don't think there's ways to tie between Jenkins and Travis for my understanding, it's sort of like you're in one camp or the other.
Yeah.
John Mertic: Okay.
Enyu Wang: Yeah, please help spread the word. I'm definitely think one big step in terms of driving open source.
Option.
John Mertic: Is this something
16149350844: It'd be kind of cool to have us in there for at least you know
Enyu Wang: Yeah, so, so we'll have to look into that because
Enyu Wang: Because the Chelsea I build infrastructure.
Enyu Wang: Is tightly
16149350844: Is
Enyu Wang: Closely tied with the
Enyu Wang: The, the canonical Alex de container.
Enyu Wang: Um, so we'll have to look into.
16149350844: You know how to
Enyu Wang: You know, enable a tendency was
16149350844: So I'm also CPVC 64 Ellie And I guess if canonical driving it. The only support that did, did we lose all interest in
16149350844: Big Indian
16149350844: Part of me.
16149350844: Is just curious about the architecture. I'm sure canonical is going with the little Indian mode.
Phil Tully: With power.
16149350844: And I'm curious if they if anybody has any remaining interest in
16149350844: In big Indian our
Enyu Wang: I'm not sure about power, but canonical supports big Indian
16149350844: Z. So
16149350844: Yeah, I'm not wearing
16149350844: Canonical source.
Enyu Wang: Power, I think power.
16149350844: Decide to go with metal India.
16149350844: Right right yeah that's that's clear. I just, I guess I just throw out a question to the group. Does anyone have any remaining interest in big
Maybe not. Okay. No big deal.
16149350844: The CHIP, the CHIP being by modal that's kind of a weird thing in my mind I get processor architectures is something I kind of follow in general, and I'm not aware of too many processors that actually could slip between big Indian and little ad in the way the power chip can
16149350844: Is just a curiosity. Thank you.
John Mertic: Well, cool and you we should talk about um if Travis CI wants to get sort of more involved in the open mainframe project as well because I could, I could see maybe us helping
John Mertic: You know, do some of the the crossovers here. To me, it's a useful resource for some of the open source projects that are already using Travis CI, to be able to build out to Linux and would be great.
Joe Devlin: It's all
Joe Devlin: Also for Zoe, or any of the real CEOs things that go on.
Joe Devlin: You know that if me Travis is a nice, you know, build infrastructure. But if it is is IBM putting the CEO has on the roadmap or not in this offering or be. I apologize for not knowing the voice of the person who the woman who knew the most about this.
John Mertic: I think there was any new
Joe Devlin: Okay yeah and and that it could at least find out whether it's on the roadmap or or not. I mean just curiosity.
Enyu Wang: Right, it's, it's actually not on the roadmap, but we can definitely bring it up.
Enyu Wang: And down to your idea that, you know, we should ask them if they're interested in participating co MP very good idea. We're going to have a first meeting with them next Wednesday. I'll definitely bring it up.
John Mertic: Okay, yeah. Keep me posted. Yeah, I think we should we should try to get them involved because there's just a lot of common interest, I think that would also help them help their visibility within the mainframe community more
Enyu Wang: Yeah, they're a small company so they could definitely use some help from IBM
Yep.
John Mertic: Okay, cool.
John Mertic: Um, anything else from the grip today.
Phil Tully: Well, this was a great kickoff of the year meeting. I'm
John Mertic: Definitely really excited, definitely excited to run a lot of the enthusiasts and we have here um next meeting.
John Mertic: Is just as scheduled here.
John Mertic: On February the
John Mertic: Will do some project updates as always. And if anybody if you have any other ideas of topics or things you'd want to present before this group that you think you know just might be interesting from an open source.
pfandel: On mainframe perspectives. I actually, I was on mute, before I did have one other thing. This is Peter. If you look at the chat box. I just put in a URL. If you click on that URL. You'll I think this group might find that interesting. It's a group that's been doing something in the
pfandel: Open Source and mainframe related that that's kind of cool.
John Mertic: I wonder if we could do you have any contacts with them.
John Mertic: Nope.
John Mertic: We should get them in, they just
pfandel: They just posted it on our rockets open source on the forum.
John Mertic: Wow, we should get them involved here because that's a
John Mertic: That's a really cool stuff.
18049181726: time away from my screen. What is this, it
16149350844: Sounds juicy.
16149350844: It's an
pfandel: ISP interface to get
pfandel: Thought, somebody might like that. Yeah.
John Mertic: They, they really kept it to 42. I mean, it's
John Mertic: It's pretty it's pretty cool. Yeah, let me see if I can try to make connections with them. Maybe we can see if we get them into a future meeting.
John Mertic: Cool. All right. Well, thank you for sharing that. Thank you all. We'll talk next month.
pfandel: Okay, bye.
Ingo Adlung: Thanks, bye. All right.